# Home Automation 
## CONTROLLING HOME ELECTRICAL UTILITIES WITH THE HELP OF REMOTE, TOUCH SWITCH, ANDROID APP, AND VOICE COMMAND

This project is based on the construction of a model simulating home automation with different operation modes. The main objective of this project is to develop a home automation system by using various control systems like using touch switches, IR remote, voice commands, and also through an Android Operating System smartphone. As technology is advancing, our houses are also getting smarter. So, in this project, voice control, remote control, Touch control, and Bluetooth control through smartphones give the user various facilities to every house member and also to the disabled person to control their home utilities/appliances through various such sources. The major component that is used in this project is Arduino NANO, an IR module controller and remote, a Bluetooth receiver, and a self-developed Android app.

## OVERVIEW
A home automation system uses information technologies and a control system to reduce human labour.<br>
Nowadays, we have remote controls for our television sets and other electronic systems, which have made our lives easy. Have you ever wondered about home automation which would give the facility of controlling tube lights, fans, and other electrical appliances at home using a remote control? Off-course, yes! But, are the available options cost-effective? If the answer is No, we have found a solution to it. We have come up with a new system called Arduino-based home automation using Bluetooth & IR Remote. This system is super-cost effective and can give the user, the ability to control any electronic device. This project helps the user to control all the electronic devices using his/her smartphone or remote. Time is a very valuable thing. Everybody wants to save time as much as they can. New technologies are being introduced to save our time. To save people’s time we are introducing a Home Automation system using Bluetooth/IR Remote/Voice, etc. With the help of this system, you can control your home appliances from your mobile phone. You can turn on/off your home appliances within the range of Bluetooth. In broad strokes, the main points of this project are automation and control, electronic boards and mobile applications, and particularly home automation, Arduino boards, and Android applications. <br>
This is the result of the connection of two modern technologies, including hardware and software. Despite the actuality of these components, they all appeared long ago and have been evolving throughout history. <br>
The rapid growth of technologies influences us to use smartphones to remotely control home appliances. An automated device has the ability to work with versatility, diligence, and with the lowest error rate. The idea of a home automation system is a significant issue for Researchers and home appliances companies. Automation system not only helps to decrease human labour but also saves time and energy. Early home automation systems were used in labour-saving machines but nowadays its main objective is to provide facilities for elderly and handicapped people to perform their daily routine tasks and control the home appliances remotely. A Bluetooth-based wireless home automation system can be implemented at a low cost and it is easy to install in an existing home. Research work proved that Bluetooth systems are faster than wireless and GSM systems. Bluetooth technology can transmit data serially up to 3 Mbps within a physical range of 10m to 100m depending on the type of Bluetooth device. The design of the proposed method is based on an Arduino board, Bluetooth module, sensors, and smartphone application. Bluetooth module HC-05 is interfaced with the Arduino board and home appliances are connected with the Arduino board via relay. A smartphone application is used for serial communication between the smartphone and Bluetooth module which is further connected to the Arduino board.
